
THE RANIDAE


HOW TO BREED, FEED AND RAISE

THE EDIBLE FROG



PUBLISHED BY
THE MEADOW BROOK FARM
ALLENDALE, N. J.




THE EDIBLE FROG.

[Illustration: "RANA ESCULENTA."]




HOW TO BREED, FEED AND RAISE THE EDIBLE FROG.


A Book of Great Value to Beginners, Covering Every Detail Thoroughly.


WHAT TO DO AND HOW TO DO IT.


PRICE $1.00.

PUBLISHED AND EDITED BY
THE MEADOW BROOK FARM,
ALLENDALE, NEW JERSEY.

(Copyright 1905, F. E. Bierbrier)




CONTENTS


Information for Beginners,                     Page 3

Those Desirous of Light Work,                    "  7

For the Country Home,                            "  7

As a Business,                                   "  8

When to Begin,                                   "  8

How Much to Invest,                              "  9

The Ponds and How to Construct Them,             " 10

Care of Ponds,                                   " 12

Great Profit in Swamp Lands,                     " 13

The Edible Frog, (_Rana Esculenta_),             " 15

Nests and Nest Building,                         " 20

Enemies of Spawn, Tadpoles and Small Frogs,      " 21

Hatching and Progress of the Young Frog,         " 22

Food for Tadpoles,                               " 23

Food for Frogs,                                  " 25

Catching the Frogs,                              " 26

Some Things about Frogs Repeated,                " 27




LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS


The Edible Frog,                              Page  1

Watching and Waiting,                            "  8

The Female Frog,                                 " 15

The Male Frog,                                   " 19

Hatching and Progress of The Young Frog,         " 22

Action of Frog's Tongue in Catching a Fly,       " 25

Skeleton of a Frog,                              " 27

"Patience Rewarded,"                             " 29




PREFACE.

Think of it! "One Dollar a Pound."


The Editor of this book was brought face to face with the true
possibilities in Frog raising by his love for this delicate meat and
his inability to get it. As I had visited all the principal markets in
New York City, a market where it is known the world over that if there
is anything in the eatable line to be found it can be found there. This
was not so of frog meat. After making several attempts and failing,
finally one day I found about twenty pounds, which had been shipped
from a distant point, and when I inquired the price? "_One dollar a
pound_," it set me to thinking, as it will you, now that I have brought
the subject to your notice. At prices like this and the demand far in
excess of the supply, as I had inquired of the market man if he had
many calls for frog meat, and his reply was, "More than we can get to
supply." Now what more inducement does anyone want? This information
should make you ambitious to go into the business of Frog Raising. You
hear on all sides of you to-day that there is no opportunity to go in
business and make money, as all the branches of industry are
overproduced. Here surely is one line of business that is not
overproduced. And a business that is not necessary to large capital to
start, and one that bids fair to bring him who ventures good profitable
results.




FROG RAISING.




Information for Beginners.


We are constantly in receipt of inquiries from parties who want
information regarding the raising of Frogs. So we have compiled the
following pages to answer more fully such inquiries than we can by
letter. If you do not find the information you want contained herein,
let us hear from you, and we will take pleasure in advising you to the
best of our knowledge.

The author of this book conceived the idea that there was a large
amount of money to be made in Raising Frogs.

The object in publishing this book is to get persons who are so
situated that they can make a business of raising Frogs interested so
as to supply the growing demand that is year by year increasing, and
with a price ranging from seventy-five cents to one dollar and fifty
cents a pound. This should be an incentive to anyone to start in the
business, when the work of Raising Frogs is so simple, and with such
large returns to repay one for their efforts.

The principal thing is to study the nature of the Frog in habit and
breeding. What knowledge we have in the breeding and raising is given
herein, and with the experience gained from observation in Raising
Frogs it soon becomes an interesting and profitable business. Frog
Raising will bring in more profit for the same amount of time and money
invested than any other industry that we know of. Every farmer, or
farmer's boy, should have a Frog pond and Raise Frogs.

It is one of the lines of business that we have heard about, "That
makes money for you while you sleep."

Many farmers already have Frog ponds, and at a greater profit than any
other investment they have on their farm of a like amount. Poultry
keepers should have a small Frog pond, especially if they market their
product in some city near their Plant and have individual customers,
and sell their product direct. They would always have a steady market
for more Frog meat than they could supply, and at large profitable
prices, as it's a luxury that most people indulge in and would do so
more often if they knew where to get Frog meat.

Try yourself to buy Frog meat, and you will soon find that it's not to
be had at any price in most places, and when it once becomes known that
you are Raising Frogs you will soon find that your demand for Frog meat
is much greater than you can supply. It works in very well with poultry
raising if you can construct your ponds at not too great an expense,
and is much more profitable considering the investment and work.




Those Desirous of Light Work.


Many who are unable to do heavy work will find Frog Raising a very
desirable occupation. Being in the open air it tends to health, which
is beneficial to those who are sickly and to whom it becomes necessary
to take up one of the lighter occupations. The work is light and with
care and study can be made a source of a substantial income, and
carried on intelligently Frog Raising is as certain a business and as
profitable if not more than many undertakings, and you will always find
a ready market for all the Frogs you can raise. Any one of the large
Hotels or Restaurants in New York City will use more Frog meat in a
year than one Frog Raiser can supply, and you can get a standing order
for shipments of a certain number of pounds each week. Make inquiries
along this line and you will soon be convinced of the opportunity this
business offers.




For the Country Home.


If you are living in the city the greater part of the year, and so
fortunate as to have a country home, you by all means should put in a
pond and Raise Frogs, as they will be a delicacy for yourself and also
your friends when they come from the city to see you. And they will be
one of the natural products of the country, which one comes from the
city to the country to enjoy, and to many they will be an interesting
and novel sight. And in winter, when you are away, they will be dormant
and need no care.




As a Business.


If you are going into Frog Raising as a business, we recommend that you
make a small beginning, for nothing is more discouraging, after having
gone into a business exclusively, than to have reverses in the start
and lose a large portion of your investment for want of a little
practical experience. Many persons have met failure by starting on a
large scale at first, and without practical experience, where had they
started small might to-day be a grand success. This caution applies in
all business ventures, and it's the mistake that is made and cause of
most failures.




When to Begin.


We recommend the active work to begin in the early spring. Get your
ponds ready as soon as possible. Get your stock and place it early, so
it becomes familiar with its new quarters before the breeding season
sets in.

[Illustration: WATCHING AND WAITING]




How Much to Invest.


This, of course, depends largely on the circumstances. If you have
abundant means and delight in some hobby and want to make a fancy
proposition out of it, why you can make your ponds as expensive and
picturesque as you wish. But for those who wish to make a business for
the benefit of the income to be derived, should start with a small pond
and about six pairs of Frogs. Then gradually increase your breeding
pond as your stock and ability to handle it demands. Don't start with
Frogs under four years of age. They will be the cheapest in the end.




The Ponds and How to Construct Them.


If you have a running stream of water on your place, the work of
building the ponds is much easier than where you have to depend on
filling them from pumped water.

It is necessary to have several ponds, one large pond is not
satisfactory. The reason for this is explained later. A plant for
business should have at least four ponds. The depth of the ponds need
not be very great, three feet is ample, and they could be less if you
can have a good loam bottom that will hold water. But three feet is
very satisfactory, and this graduating off to two feet, and one foot
deep at the bank is plenty. A good shape and cheap way to build the
ponds is like the cut shown. If the ground you have won't allow of this
arrangement why make to best arrangement your ground will permit for
convenience, carrying out the plan advisable for Raising Frogs. You
must have a breeding pond, a hatching pond, a raising and a stock pond,
four ponds in all. The stock pond should be the largest, permitting of
plenty of room for growing and opportunity to get food. The size of
your ponds depends largely on the amount of land available, its
topography and the water supply. Ponds not less than one-half acre in
area, with the inlet at one end and the outlet at the other, in a line
of its longest axis, generally produce the best results, though smaller
ponds can be successfully used.

At least one-fourth of each of the ponds should not be over one foot in
depth, and this portion should be planted with pond weed
(_Potamogeton_) and water weed (_Elodea_, or _Anacharis_) to facilitate
the production and growth of the minute animals which furnish so large
a part of the food for the Frogs at all stages of growth. The rest of
the pond should have a gradually sloping bottom, and consequent
increase depth to the outlet (or drawoff), where the water should be at
least five feet deep, so that in drawing off the ponds the stock can be
assembled in a small area for sorting, etc. The bottom of the ponds,
preferable, soft muck, in which the Frogs can bury themselves in cold
weather and avoid against danger of freezing. In the middle of all the
ponds, except the spawn hatching pond, water lilies should be planted,
the large pods, such as (_Nymphea alba_). These plants furnish hiding
places from fish hawks, also serve as a sun shade and stool for sunning
during summer. It is not advisable to place large bowlders in the pond,
as they are in the way of seining or netting, and furnish an acceptable
resort for crawfish, which are enemies when large. Nursery ponds should
be constructed to afford young protection from enemies and to produce
the greatest quantity of insect life suited for their sustenance, and
this is better accomplished with a number of small ponds than with one
large one. A good working size for spawn breeding is from 40 to 50 feet
long, by 12 to 15 feet wide, with a depth of from 18 to 36 inches deep
to the outlet. Where the topography of the ground will permit it is
better to have the nurseries immediately adjoining the spawning pond.
With water supply from same source, so that there will be but slight
difference between the temperature of the shallowest part of nursery
pond and surface of water of spawning pond. If the location is infested
with crawfish or snakes the nurseries should be protected by wire
screens. The spawning nursery ponds may be combined by constructing one
comparatively long pond, narrow near the middle, so that the general
shape would be like an hour-glass. Across the narrow part is to be
stretched a screen of one-quarter inch wire cloth, which will confine
the spawners to the deeper end of the pond, while the fry or hatching
spawn will be kept separate. This form of pond is advantageous where
for any reason only a few ponds can be built. Between all ponds that
are connected they should be screened where water runs from one pond to
the other, that is, at the inlet and outlets.

Each pond should be surrounded by one-half inch wire mesh two feet
high. This makes a protection to the ponds from enemies, and also keeps
the Frogs confined to the ponds they are intended.




Care of Ponds.


The accumulated decayed matter ought to be occasionally removed. The
frequency of this depends on character of the water supply, the amount
of silt it brings into the ponds, the character of the soil, and on the
thoroughness of the yearly removal of the surplus vegetation. Care
should be taken that the ponds do not become offensive with stagnant
water and rotten vegetation. This condition is detrimental to large
production; while abundant pond vegetation is favorable to a large
production of fry it must not become decayed. It is sometimes so
luxuriant that it settles down in a blanket-like mass and smothers and
pens in many of the young Frogs. Under such conditions it should be
removed frequently. This can be done by lowering the ponds, if they are
built so they can be drawn off, which is a very desirable and
convenient way if the topography of the land will permit. A strong
flat-bottom boat should be made, in which can be taken the surplus
matted vegetation and carried off. At each end of the boat a ring
should be fastened, through which stakes can be driven to hold the boat
at points in the pond to be worked. The vegetation is raked from the
water in small lots. Care should be taken not to bring up any of the
small Frogs and Tadpoles with the vegetation. It should be removed from
the banks of the ponds at once, as it will rot very fast, and its
presence is objectionable.

If a boat is not used the vegetation can be drawn near the shore with
long-handled rakes and taken out with long-handled pitchforks made
especially.

This method is simple and much more economical. Two men can accomplish
more than five men by the other method. The advantage in favor of the
boat is that you do not need to disturb the whole mass, but pick it out
here and there as you think best, and have it more uniform and not
destroy the roots so much.




Great Profit in Swamp Lands.


Swamp lands, on a farm, converted into Froggeries, _bring in large
profits_. If you have a piece of ground which is swampy, which can be
found on most any farm, and you do not convert this into "_Raising
Frogs_," you are losing one of the most profitable products of your
farm, as _more money_ can be made from an _acre of swamp land in a
Froggery than ten acres in wheat_, if properly managed, and with little
expense. You first want to excavate a portion of it where you can have
water, 50 × 15 feet, and another part of it 15 × 20 feet, and fence it
in, as explained above with a 2-foot one-half mesh wire. In the larger
pond place the breeding Frogs, and in the smaller one hatch out the
spawn, and when they are developed into Frogs turn them loose on the
swamp to grow until they maintain marketable size. If there is a small
stream or ditch running through the swamp, which very often is the
case, then it is an easy task. And here is where the old saying can be
applied, "Makes money for you while you sleep." And good, big money it
makes, too. _Don't put off_ turning your swamp into a _money-maker_. DO
IT NOW.




The Edible Frog (Rana Esculenta.)


[Illustration: THE FEMALE FROG.]

Two species of Rana are common in America and Europe, viz., _Rana
esculenta_ and _Rana temporaria_. The latter alone is indigenous to
Great Britain, and varieties of it extend throughout temperate Europe
and Asia to Japan, and one variety (_pretiosa_) exists in the United
States. The edible Frog (_Rana esculenta_), however, has been
introduced into England. An Indian species (_Rana breviceps_) and
several South African species burrow in the ground.

ECOLOGY AND HABITS. The skin of Frogs is usually smooth and free from
warts or horny excrescences. It is invested with a colorless epidermis,
which is shed from time to time as the creature grows; this splits
along the back and thighs, is worked over the head like the taking off
of a shirt, and usually eaten by the wearer. The deeper layers contain
much pigment, in cells which are more or less under muscular control,
enabling Frogs to change their hue to conform to the background.

Frogs are carnivorous, and in the season of activity are likely to be
very voracious. The terrestrial and arboreal forms feed mainly on
insects, worms, etc. The aquatic kinds also catch insects, but subsist
more on aquatic animals--worms, tadpoles, small fishes, and other
Frogs. These are seized and slowly swallowed, often, where before the
remainder, perhaps still alive, has been got within the mouth.

Extremes of cold or drought in climate must be avoided by Frogs.
Moisture of the skin is necessary to their health, and in very dry
places or seasons they survive only by going deeply under ground. Thus
some tropical species get through the "dry season." The frogs of
northern climates endure the winter by clustering about spring-holes
and other places where the water is comparatively warm and free of ice;
or else by hibernating in the mud. Terrestrial species bury themselves
for the winter in the loam, or burrow into the dry dust of rotting logs
and stumps. Their vitality is strong, and their power of regeneration
from partial congelation is very great.

Though most species live always in or near water, many spend the
greater part of their time away from it, and often in bushes or trees.
These, however, go to the water to breed; and as this function is
likely to demand attention early in the spring, it is then that these
animals make themselves most conspicuous by the incessantly uttered
croaking or rattling calls of the males, which are almost as varied as
the songs of the birds, and more ventriloquistic. These are wholly the
cries of the male Frogs, and cease when the mates have been found and
have spawned; and to assist in producing them many species have gular
air-sacs, which are connected with the vocal organs and furnish the
power required for the loud and insistent utterances. The great
ear-drums correlated with this vocal power are conspicuous in many
species.

The reproductive habits of Frogs are various. All of our common species
lay their eggs in water, the eggs being fertilized as they are laid. As
the eggs are laid they are inclosed in a gelatinous envelope secreted
by the female. This swells and protects the eggs from injury, from
being fed upon, from the direct rays of the sun, and in some species it
serves to float the eggs at the surface of the water, where oxygen is
most abundant; finally, the envelope serves as food for the young
frogs. The mouth of the tadpole is small and provided with a horny
beak, which takes the place of the teeth which are not yet developed.
The tadpole feeds on algæ that cover stones, and on the flesh of dead
animals. The long, spirally coiled intestine, which can be seen on the
under side of the animal, is an adaptation to its prevailingly
herbivorous diet, which requires a prolonged digestion.

The tadpole usually lives in the water for two or three months before
it takes to land. In the Bullfrog, however, the transformation (see
TOAD) does not take place until the second summer.

In many tropical Frogs the reproductive habits are much modified. One
species (_Phyllobates trinitatis_) of Venezuela and Trinidad carries
its tadpoles on its back, to which the young attach themselves by means
of their suckers. A frog of the Seychelles Islands lives in the
tree-ferns far from water, and carries its young about on its back, to
which they are attached by their bellies. In the Kameruns lives a Frog
that lays its eggs in a foamy mass on the leaves of a tree. When the
larvæ are developed the mass becomes slimy and the tadpoles swim about
it, and when a heavy rain falls they are washed into pools of water
lying at the bases of the trees. The foam is probably produced as it is
in culinary operations, by air being entangled in it by a beating that
the Frog gives the jelly with its feet. The inclosed air may well serve
in respiration. Compare TOAD.

UTILITIES. Among both civilized and savage men Frogs are a culinary
dainty. The edible European Frog is so much prized in France that it is
bred for the market in large preserves. In the United States both the
Bullfrog and spring Frog are sold in the markets. In France and the
United States the hind legs alone are eaten; they are known as
"saddles" to American marketmen, and are usually served at table fried.
In Germany all the muscular parts are served stewed, often with sauce.
Frogs have enabled man to contribute much to his knowledge of
physiology. The tail of the tadpole, so frequently fed on by dragon-fly
larvæ and other aquatic enemies, has great capacity of regeneration.
The study of its re-formation has added to our knowledge of the
regeneration of animal tissue. The circulation of the blood, so readily
seen by the aid of the microscope in the web of the Frog's foot, is a
classic and painless classroom demonstration. Observations on the
response of Frog-muscle to stimuli led the great Italian physiologist
Galvani to the discovery of dynamical or current electricity, known to
us as galvanic or voltaic electricity.

[Illustration: THE MALE FROG. (See Blower.)]




Nests and Nest Building.


Whenever the spawning period occurs, ample warning will be given, as
the male Frogs will begin croaking for their mate, and will be seen
near the shore. Early in the spring is the breeding season, and the
Frogs will be seen in pairs, working in company, selecting nests, which
are in place where there is a vegetation to attach the spawn, near the
surface of the water, as the action of the sun has much to do with the
hatching of the spawn.

Impregnation takes place immediately after the spawn is deposited, as
with the spawn of fish. The spawn of frogs looks like a gelatin mass in
the shape of a bunch of grapes, and will be found attached to some
vegetation in the pond. This should be immediately taken out with a
large, long handle dipper and deposited in the hatching pond, as the
spawn will be destroyed by the frogs jumping into the pond and coming
in contact with it, for if the spawn is separated or broken up and
sinks to the bottom of the pond, where it cannot get the proper action
of the sun, many of the eggs will not hatch, but will be destroyed and
eaten. The nursery, or hatching pond, should be constructed in this
way: Make some skeleton frames that will set on the bottom of the pond,
and come within a few inches of the top of the water. Fasten the frames
down, either by weights or stakes driven in the ground. Take some fine
netting such as used on windows to keep out flies; cotton or flax
netting preferred to wire. Fasten this netting to the frame. Be sure
that the netting is always covered with water when spawn is on it. On
this netting, deposit the eggs or spawn taken from the breeding pond.
In this way it will be undisturbed, and the sun can do its part toward
the hatching of the eggs. This method will be found successful, and you
can watch the progress, and the influence of the sun and water on the
hatching of the eggs and note the change from day to day, as the Frogs
have nothing more to do with their development. Another reason for
separating the eggs or spawn from the breeding ponds is, when the spawn
is hatched into tadpoles, the Frogs will eat the tadpoles as fast as
they wiggle out of the egg. In fact, Frogs are cannibals, and will eat
the young until they get large enough to protect themselves.

This is why ponds should be constructed so that Frogs of different
sizes can be separated, and all of about a size, kept in ponds by
themselves, and raised together. By this arrangement you save many
small Frogs.




Enemies of Spawn, Tadpoles and Small Frogs.


The enemies must be guarded against by proper fencing with wire netting
and boards. A board should be sunken into the ground at least three
inches, and 2 foot 2 inch mesh wire fastened on it. If a 12-inch board
is used, this will make a fence about 34 inches high. It could be built
higher if desired, but this height makes a good appearance. The enemies
are rats, cats, turtles, water centipedes, water beetles, coons,
leeches and snakes. Snakes are one of the worst enemies, as they will
devour the spawn, of which they are very fond, and also the small
Frogs.




Hatching and Progress of the Young Frogs.


Figure 1 represents the embryo as it appears several days after the egg
is deposited. Figure 2 gives an outline of its form; the arrows at the
side of the head shows the currents of water, which are seen to flow to
the branchiæ by the breathing of the young animal. A short period
brings it to the form represented in Nos. 3 and 4, the latter
representing the head. Figure 5 shows the form of the tadpole when
first hatched, which usually takes place about four weeks after the
depositing of the egg. Figures 6, 7 and 8 shows various stages of its
development; the latter representing the tadpole, called pollywog
sometimes; this, for some time, now undergoes little change of form,
but increases in size. At length the hinder legs bud, and are gradually
developed, as seen in No. 9; the fore legs are ere long produced in a
similar manner.

HATCHINGS. The tail begins now to diminish, as seen in No. 10, and is
finally absorbed into the body and disappears. The tadpole (which, for
a time, is like a fish and breathing by branchiæ, or gills, and feeding
on vegetable food of fishes) is now a frog; breathes the air by true
lungs, and betakes itself to the land, where it pursues the avocations
of its new and higher life, whereas it before swam by means of a tail
it now leaps, and as before, it ate only roots and grass, it now
becomes a hunter of insects and worms. This, or a very similar process
of reproduction, is common to all species of the family. The Rana Frogs
form the highest group of the Batrachian class. They are active
creatures, feeding on insects and worms. Those which live upon the
ground in the neighborhood of standing water, and pass a considerable
portion of their lives in the water, have their toes pointed, and those
of the hinder feet united, almost to the tips, by membrane.




Food for Tadpoles.


The spawn or egg takes from four to six weeks to hatch to the shape of
a tadpole, and the tadpole takes about four or five months to hatch or
change its shape from that of a tadpole to a small frog, which is done
as stated in previous paragraph. Frogs are very prolific. One bunch of
spawn, from large, well developed frogs, and of five years of age or
over, will produce or hatch over one thousand tadpoles. But of course
all of these will not be raised to become small Frogs. But a great
proportion of them can be if properly cared for and you have the proper
facilities.

The beak of the tadpole is adapted to the eating of leaves and other
vegetable foods, and on which they could entirely subsist. But it is
well to give them access to small insect food, much of which they can
get from surface of water. The food changes entirely when the tadpole
develops into a Frog. When a frog, the food is entirely insect or live
food. It is well, sometimes, when you cannot get facilities to supply
naturally plenty of insect food, to take some of the smaller Frogs and
tadpoles and place them in the ponds with the growing Frogs, and allow
the Frogs to live on them. They must be fed live food. Chopped meats
and food of this character will do for tadpoles, but must not be used
too freely, as they do not eat it readily, and it only decays and a
stifling stench follows. If your ponds are connected with a running
stream, much of the insect life for the tadpoles and smaller Frogs is
brought into the ponds by the stream, which is very desirable, and
saves much extra work. Leave the tadpoles in the nursery pond until
they have developed into Frogs. The tadpoles are fish in a sense and
will eat most anything, either vegetable or animal matter. In fact, he
is a scavenger, and will clean out the ponds. But as soon as he turns
into a frog, he requires a different class of food, as he is an
amphibious animal. Remember this, as herein, is one of the secrets that
have caused so many failures. THE FOOD FOR FROGS IS ANIMAL FOOD.




Food for Frogs.


[Illustration: ACTION OF FROG'S TONGUE IN CATCHING A FLY.]

_Caution_, from this time on, ANIMAL FOOD ONLY. No chopped meat, as
Frogs will not eat it, and it will decay and cause a stench. Do not
attempt to feed it to frogs. This is the time that care must be taken
to see that your Frogs get plenty of the proper kind of animal food. If
they are not kept supplied, they will turn to and eat each other, and
in this way destroy many a pound of good Frog meat, that is worth "One
Dollar a pound" or more. As the tadpoles hatch out prolifically, it's
wise to keep a quantity of these and the Small Frogs on hand to feed
the larger ones that are being gotten ready for market. By having a
number of small ponds, this stock can be kept on hand for this purpose.
A plant that will grow on top of the water furnishes many insects, as
well as perching places to basque, in the sun, and catch a passing
unsuspecting fly. It also affords a shady place to get under on a hot
day, with head above water looking for food. _One of the best and
easiest ways to furnish live food is to soak a number of potato or feed
bags with molasses, and fasten them up around the ponds_, just above
the ground. This draws the flies, and they will come within reach of
the Frogs, and as you will see by the cut at top of this paragraph, the
tongue of the Frog is developed to be of service in catching them.
Small tadpoles from other species of frogs, that are not eatable, make
good food for them. These can be found in large quantities along most
any stream, or in any pool of water. Wood lice or sow-bugs are good. In
planting vegetable matter in the ponds be sure and always plant from
seed, as in transplanting you may bring Leeches into your ponds, which
are very destructive to the Frogs, and act on the Frogs the same as
chicken lice do on chicken, and in time will kill the Frog, and at all
times retard its growth. If your Frogs do not thrive well look for
Leeches.

IMPORTANT. If it is necessary to feed your Frogs on small fry from
fishes or on tadpoles and small Frogs, it might be well to have a
supply pond, which can be small, and in feeding it is only necessary to
_feed twice a week_, and can be done by putting quantities here and
there in the ponds, and let the Frogs catch them as they swim about.
Three gillies, tadpole or small Frogs is considered a fair meal for
each Frog.




Catching the Frogs.


There are several ways by which to catch the Frogs when ready to
market. If they are to be dressed they can be speared; this is done
with a handle like is found on an ordinary house broom with a fish
spear fastened in the end. One of the best times to spear them is at
night with a light as they come on the bank at night to catch bugs.
They can also be caught very readily with a hand net, same as used in
landing trout. This net can be purchased at most any hardware store, or
where they keep fishing tackle. If the Frogs are to be marketed alive
they must be caught in this way. In shipping them alive always put wet
weeds from the pond in bottom of box if they are to go any distance,
and put instructions on the box for agent to keep the weeds wet while
in transit. This will insure safe delivery of live frogs.




Some Things About Frogs.


[Illustration: SKELETON OF A FROG.]

We here repeat many of the principal items we have previously
mentioned, because they are the questions which are most frequently
asked. Frogs are very prolific. One bunch of eggs will hatch more than
a thousand tadpoles, and if you had the facilities, they could be
hatched and reared to marketable size. A good running stream, which can
be coursed through all your ponds, makes Frog Raising very simple and
profitable. A living can be made from "Frog Raising" if you are
favorably located, and the main qualities needed is patience and good
common sense, to which observation should be added. It takes Frogs, to
grow to marketable size, from two to three years.

The eggs take six weeks to hatch out. The tadpole takes from five to
six months to turn into a Frog. And the Frog, to grow to marketable
size, about two years.

Here lies the secret of the high price of Frog meat. The time it takes
before the Frog can be developed to marketable size discourages many
from entering into the business. But once equipped and the first three
years gone over, from that time on the revenue is continuous and the
profit large, and you have a yearly income equalled by no other line of
business, as you have always got some Frogs that are coming into
marketable size. And the income, from this product, depends entirely on
how large a scale you want to enter it. Another source of revenue,
which is very profitable, is selling breeding Frogs to beginners, as it
is only the "Edible Frog" that is profitable to raise for market, and
it takes from four to five years to get the best breeders. They bring
good prices. The prices range according to the age. Frogs will breed
from two years old, but the best results are obtained from the older
mates, as the older and larger the Frog, the heavier and larger the
spawn, and the more eggs will hatch and produce stronger and sturdier
tadpoles, and from these mates the Frogs grow large more quickly. So in
starting, it is always better to pay a little more for your breeding
stock and not use so many pairs, and get good old settlers, as the
saying is, when you hear them croak, "There is a good old settler." And
be sure to start right, not with the common meadow green Frog, which is
eatable, but has a strong taste and does not grow to any size. The
average size of this Frog at most any age is about three inches, and
you will be greatly disappointed after you have spent your time and
find that you have not had the profitable breeder. Get the Frog known
as the "Edible Frog of England." This is the (Rana Esculenta).

The subject of Frog Raising is a limited one. We have, however, tried
to give as briefly as possible all the essential details and secrets to
success of Raising Frogs.

[Illustration: "PATIENCE REWARDED."]




SPECIAL NOTICE.


Be sure and get the Edible Frog when you start, as they are the best
for table and bring the highest prices, and grow to marketable size
more rapidly, which is a big item. We always have breeding stock for
sale at following prices:

    3 year old Frogs, per pair     $ 4.00

    4 year old Frogs, per pair       8.00

    5 year old Frogs, per pair      10.00

Place your orders early, so as to be sure and get your breeders in
time to get the advantage of early breeding. Send money by registered
letter or money order to


MEADOW BROOK FARM,
Allendale, New Jersey.






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Ranidae, by Unknown

